If songs.db contains the top 100 songs of one listener from 2018,
how would you characterize their audio aura?

Using the average of the following columns of the database:

danceability = 0.71646,
energy = 0.65906,
loudness = -5.67764,
speechiness = 0.115569,
valence = 0.484443,
tempo = 119.90418,
duration_ms - 205206.78;

As parameters to be analysed and used as criteria to categorise, the
respective person, in order to be attached in one of the groups
presented by spotify: 'Purple', 'Green', 'Pink', 'Orange', 'Yellow'
and 'Blue', and the definition of each being elaborated by the Mystic
Michaela.

The fictional person presented, by the exercise, seems to like
listening to danceable and speechless music, with a medium tempo and
high energy, but not as energetic to 'make you lose control'.

And with a conclusion of brief analysis, the fictional person seems to
have a 'Purple' aura: "Purple auras tune in to get amped up, entertained,
and moving while they navigate the twists and turns of their day.". The
definition presented by spotify and it's team, seems to fit for the
person, as it has the feeling being entertained and this feeling being
passive of being represented as the verb of 'dance'.


Hypothesize about why the way you’ve calculated this aura
might not be very representative of the listener.
What better ways of calculating this aura would you propose?

The mathematical operations and relationships of the concepts that
revolve around the topic of social groups being classified by numeric
values obtained by, at the moment, an unknown source, it's out of my reach.

Developing concepts and parameters, as the spotify team did, it's one way
of doing. Maybe for others, other values would be of more important then
the group of values presented. For example, the 'notes' or better, the
'scale' could categorise a mood and be used as a parameter. The idea of 'scale',
would need new concepts and new ways of grouping, as a more progressive
song could be difficult to have a 'scale' defined as it could start in
a certain mood and as the whole song develops it could end with
different mood with different meanings that could change the whole
idea of the beginning.

The presented complexity surrounds music. It is one way of looking at it
and it's more complex to be translated into numbers as it could escape from
the mathematical field and reaching different fields of interpretation of
reality. The same goes with grouping humans, living beings, by numerical
values as it always has imperfections and 'scape rules'. The spotify's
marketing idea has its value and the tools of grouping has its importance
as well as it could reveal information only visible when grouping.