To achieve your goal of creating the assignments table automatically
with each student's ID referencing a house's ID and then removing
the house and head columns from the students table, you'll need to
follow these steps:

    Populate the houses table with unique house data.
    Create the assignments table by inserting all the student IDs and their corresponding house IDs.
    Remove the house and head columns from the students table.
    Here's a step-by-step guide on how to achieve this:


Step 1: Populate the houses table with unique house data:

    You can manually insert the house data into the houses table.
    Since it seems that the house information is unique, you can use an
    INSERT INTO statement to add each unique house along with its head
    into the houses table.

-- Example of populating the 'houses' table
INSERT INTO houses (house, head) VALUES
    ('Slytherin', 'Severus Snape'),
    ('Ravenclaw', 'Filius Flitwick'),
    ('Hufflepuff', 'Pomona Sprout'),
    ('Gryffindor', 'Minerva McGonagall');


Step 2: Create the assignments table by inserting all the student IDs
and their corresponding house IDs:

    You can use an INSERT INTO statement with a SELECT query to populate
    the assignments table based on the existing data in the students table
    and the houses table.

-- Create the 'assignments' table and populate it with student IDs and their corresponding house IDs
INSERT INTO assignments (student_id, house_id)
SELECT students.id, houses.id
FROM students
JOIN houses ON students.house = houses.house;


Step 3: Remove the house and head columns from the students table:

    After verifying that the data has been successfully inserted into
    the assignments table, you can remove the house and head columns
    from the students table.

-- Remove the 'house' and 'head' columns from the 'students' table
ALTER TABLE students DROP COLUMN house;
ALTER TABLE students DROP COLUMN head;


Please make sure to back up your database before making any
structural changes to the tables.

After following these steps, the assignments table should be
populated with the student IDs and their corresponding house IDs,
and the students table should no longer contain the house and
head columns. The data is now properly normalized with the help of
the houses table and the foreign key relationship in the
assignments table.
